And this is kind of a cool shot, we'll see if we use that.
Not sure yet.
This is OK.
But honestly, it's not going to really fit into the style of video that I want this to be.
So that's something else that, you know, you want to keep in mind is that as the film or the editor,
you're going to have a certain attachment to your own footage more than anyone else.
Let's say I remember this moment.
I was like, oh, yeah, my friend Aiva, my friend Aissa, you know, we were at the top of that mountain
and it was so nice.
And I want to remember that no one else has that memory or that attachment to the footage.
So if it's not adding and if it's distracting potentially to your overall edit, you're going to want
to take that out because you want to have a neutral opinion as much as possible on what is being seen.
Very clearly, this is an interesting shot to anyone who has not seen this.
Right.
This is only interesting to me because I was there and it reminds me of my friends.
But we're not making this as a friend memory type of edit.
So I'm going to take out that kind of shot.
And that's the kind of mindset I want you to have when you're pulling together, trying to decide what
should I use, what should I knew?
What should I not use?
I'm not a huge fan of this shot, to be honest.
So I'm going to go ahead and take that out.
And it's a good idea to kind of keep in mind what kind of length you want your video to be and how much
footage you're working with.
So if I zoom all the way out here and by the way, the little oh, man, what's this called slant key
for premiere?
Shows you the whole timeline.
If you tap it, it's below the delete key and above the return key.
I don't know.
Backslash, I think is what it's called.
If you tap it, you see the full timeline.
If you tap it again, it zooms back in.
So I want to see the whole timeline.
And we can see I have five minutes of footage that I want to fit into one minute of this edit.
So I know that stuff that I'm iffy about that I don't think I'm going to use.
I'm just going to go ahead and take it out completely.
Let's move on here to the next clip.
Let it play through.
OK, perfect.
So this is kind of a cool shot, and as you can see, it has what we were talking about with a beginning
point of interest and an ending point of interest.
Every shot that you have has a beginning and an end.
So if we hit play, OK, it starts right about there.
You see, there's it's like a pretty ocean or it's actually a lake.
And there's some movement, which is kind of nice, but it doesn't really get going until around here.
So I'm going to keep a little bit of I like this in the bottom.
Right.
So I'm going to cut that and start there.
Yeah, and then I'm going to end it there.
OK.
And you don't want to get too into the in and out point quite just yet, because we're doing a first
kind of initial pass.
But then you can start to split frames once you get into more of the refining process.
But what we simply did there was trimmed out the intro that didn't need to be there.
There was not much going on.
And then right about.
Yep, there we cut the end of the clip.
So now it looks like we are back in the crystal underground place.
So I'm going to scrub through here and see.
That's kind of interesting there at the beginning.
That's OK.
I'm not too excited about that.
OK.
So I do some kind of camera movement there to the ceiling, but honestly, like this one doesn't really
do a whole lot for me.
But just in case I do like seeing this cool, all the reflections here in that stone, I think that's
pretty unique.
You don't get to see that much.
So what I'm going to do is play it and start it when we don't really need to see any of this.
It gets interesting right about there.
So as you're going through your footage, keep this in mind of starting with the point of interest.
You don't want to give your viewer anything to not look at because then it's like, well, why am I
seeing this footage?
OK.
And I'm going to end it about there and I'm going to trim edit the rest of that out.
And what I'm going to do here is I'm going to start to loosely organize my clips together as I'm doing
this initial pass.
So I'm going to highlight this second Chave clip.
OK.
And I'm going to drag it over to the other Chave clip.
But what happens is when I do that is that it deletes what was underneath it.
OK.
The way to get around that is to when you drag hold command, when you want to drop it.
And this is going to push everything else behind where you're dropping it off back.
So rather than overwriting and deleting what's below it, you're simply doing the opposite thing of
a ripple delete, where you're creating space and pushing everything back.
So now we have this cave clip, boom, and we have this next cave clip.
Now, because I'm loosely categorizing these clips together, another kind of little hack is to label
or color code your clips.
So the way I'm going to do that is by highlighting the clips.
I want to change the color of or put together.
And I'm going to right click, go to label, and then I'm going to be able to choose from any of these
colors.
That's going to really make it obvious what clips are from the same scene, the same time of day, the
same location, all different types of ways to label and organize your footage.
But this is a really cool way and that you'll see once we have a whole timeline cut together, Wolf.
It is such a good way, especially if you're a visual person, to keep these clips organized.